# Convergence Study

## Quick Start

### Requirements
To run this demo you will need a fenicsx environment with the `polycrystal` (material properties) and `polycrystalx` (fenicsx interface) packages installed (with pip). Currently, the `polycrystalx` package works with `fenicsx 0.9`.

### Solving
From the `convergence_study` directory, run the command:
```
pxx_suite -n 8 -k voronoi_10g jobs.batch
```
This will run fifty simulations--ten meshes for each microstructure, the finest mesh having 48,000,000 tetrahedral elements.

You can also run a smaller version:
```
pxx_suite -n 8 -k voronoi_10g_small jobs.batch
```
This runs a smaller suite--five meshes for each microstructure, the finest having 6,000,000 elements.

### Postprocessing

Postprocessing has two steps: fitting and plotting.  For the full suite, run:
```
mpirun -n 8 python run_fits.py voronoi_10g.yaml
python plot_fits.py voronoi_10g.h5
```
The `run_fits` script saves the fit data into the file `voronoi-10g.h5`, based on the name given in the yaml input file. This script will take a bit longer than the solves.  The `plot_fits` script uses the HDF5 output and is very fast.

## Details
### Contents

**Inputs and Preprocessing**.
For the demo you don't need to change anything here, but if you like you can create your own jobs and job suites to run yourself.

`gen_voronoi.py`: generates microstructures, which are stored in the `jobs/data` folder

`jobs`: the main input module

`jobs/data`: this folder stores the microstuctures generated by `gen_voronoi`

`jobs.batch` : the standard place to define suites of jobs

`jobs.job_inputs`: this is the python infrastructure that maps input `keys` to polycrystalx input definitions

**Postprocessing**.

These are python modules and scripts used in postprocessing.

`postprocess.py`: core postprocessing tools for loading job results

`fenicsx_utils.py`:  some fenicsx tools needed for postprocessing

`run_fits.py`: runs the fits

`plot_fits.py`:	plots the fits

The files below are YAML input files used in the `run_fits` script  to specify which job suites to processed. Running the script produces an HDF5 file with the fitting results, which are used by the `plot_fits` script.

`voronoi-10g.yaml`: for the main suite of simulations

`voronoi-10g-small.yaml`: for the small suite

### Setting Up Inputs
For `polycrystalx`, there are four inputs: material, polycrystal (microstructure)[^1], mesh and deformation (material process).  Each input is associated with a simple key. The material and microstructure inputs generate one more classes from the `polycrystal` package, while the mesh and deformation inputs use `polycrystalx` classes that define meshes and problem data for the material process under consideration.

[^1]: We use the terms `polycrystal` and `microstructure` interchangably. The original use of `polcrystal` in this context was in `polycrystal configuration`, meaning assignment of phases and grains to spatial positions. The term `microstructure` is simpler and easier to understand and so will be used in preference to `polcrystal`.

**Material.** There is a material database in the `jobs.job_inputs.material` module. The `material key` is the name of a material in that database. Currently there are two materials in the database: `ort-235`, an orthotropic material with different conductivities, and `ort-111`, an isotropic material.

**Polycrystal.** The polycrystal input is a microstructure loaded from a saved file in the `jobs/data` folder. The microstructures are generated via the `gen_voronoi` script. It takes two arguments---the number of grains in each microstructure and the number of random microstructures to generate. It then generates random microstructures, saving them as `.npz` files in the `jobs/data` directory, from which they can be reconstructed later. The `polycrystal key` the basename of the file.

**Mesh.** The meshes are simple box meshes with regular subdivisions. The `mesh key` is a 3-tuple of subdivisions in each direction.

**Deformation.** This is the most detailed input. The material process is heat transfer; the deformation input is a combination of a heat source and temperature and/or flux boundary conditions. These are defined by classes in the `jobs.job_inputs.deformation` module. The base class has a method to deliver the deformation inputs. The subclasses redefine the boundary conditions and heat source for a particular problem, and each subclass has a `name` attribute.  The `deformation key` is the name of the subclass.

The only key used in this demo is `temp-z-hs`, which refers to a steady heat transfer problem with temperature zero at the bottom and one at the top with smooth heat sources centered at three points.

### Running

**Single Job**.
To run a single job use the `pxx_job` command with `mpirun`.  It looks for the `job` attribute in the `jobs` module (`__init__.py`).  This is built from four input keys.  Here is the `__init__.py` file:
```
"""Inputs Module"""
from . import batch

# Material is orthotropic.
matl_key = "ort-235"

# Microstructure is the fifth 10-grain random Voronoi microstructure.
poly_key = ("voronoi", 10, 5)

# Mesh subdivisions are 50 in each direction.
mesh_key = 3 * (50,)

# Deformation has applied temperature on the top and bottom and a simple heat source.
defm_key = "temp-z-hs"

jobkey = (matl_key, poly_key, mesh_key, defm_key)
job = batch.get_job(jobkey)
```
You run the job like this:
```
mpirun -n 2 pxx_job jobs
```
The output will be written to a file based on the the name of the job suite, `convergence-study`), the material process (`heat-transfer`), and the input keys.  Note that the job suite name and the material process are set in the `job_inputs` module and apply to all jobs run here. In this case, the files will be written to: `Outputs/convergence-study/heat-transfer/ort-235-50-50-50-voronoi-10g-5-temp-z-hs`.

**Multiple Jobs**.

You can run suites of jobs by defining a python iterator that returns `job keys`. A `job key` is a list of four input keys defining a job.  One way is to make a list of job keys. It is often more convenient to use the python `itertools` package for generating combinations and sequences. For example, the `jobs.batch` module uses the `itertools.product` to generate all combinations of each input list:
```
mesh_keys = [3 * (10 * i,) for i in range(2, 11)] + [3 * (200,)] # 10 meshes
voronoi_10g_1= itertools.product(
    [ "ort-235"],
    [("voronoi", 10, 1)],
    mesh_keys,
    ["temp-z-hs"]
)
```
This generates 10 job keys, one for each mesh. You run it using `pxx_suite` with arguments being the number of processes, the name of the suite, and the module containing the named suite.
```
pxx_suite -n 8 -k voronoi_10g_1 jobs.batch
```
